# cats-and-dogs
The dataset is culled from Ni et al's robust curation of Amazon reviews available here https://nijianmo.github.io/amazon/index.html
This is a comparative analysis of Product Review Behaviours of Cat and Dog Owners which incorporates machine Learning, NLTK, polarity trends and sentiment analysis to review and forecast consumer behaviour.
Pets provide their owners with emotional, psychological, physiological, and social benefits (‌Ryan and Ziebland, 2015), increase physical activity which leads to health benefits like improved blood pressure and cholesterol levels (Surma et al (2022); McNicholas et al (2005)) as well as psychological benefits like reduced loneliness, anxiety, PTSD and improved cognitive function in older adults (Arhant-Sudhir and Arhant-Sudhir, 2011). In addition to utilitarian support for the visually impaired (Sanders, 2000), ‌Lenz et al (2022) and Carlisle (2014) among several others, also speak on the value of pets in the treatment of autism in children and adults. 
Petcare maintained consistent year-on-year growth through and post-COVID - the American Pet Products Association estimates $136.8b was spent on pets and pet supplies in 2022, while UK pet owners spent GBP9.7b in 2021 (Statista, 2022). The 2022 PAW report states 52% of UK homes own a pet including 10.2 million dogs, 1.1 million cats and 1 million rabbits. A recent survey of 988 pet owners indicated they were more likely to cut down on personal expenses than those of their pets (Ally Bank, 2023). With their ubiquity and social relevance in modern society, pet business is big business.  
This retrospective study on the dataset reviews of pet supplies purchased via Amazon between 2003 and 2018 (Ni et al, 2019) seeks to glean insights on consumer review behaviours especially regarding supplies for cats and dogs. 
This retail data review is relevant to pet store owners, barnd owners and product managers.
